---
layout: post
title: The Seekers
tags: [random, conference, engagement]
bigimg: /img/seekers_01.jpg
---

I am sitting here at the Inspire 2016 Conference in sunny San Diego listening to Dean Stoecker's (CEO of Alteryx which is a data blending and "jack of all trades" manipulation tool) keynote about analytics and Alteryx.  He was very inspiring about how self-service analytics is taking over the world, generating great efficiencies and insights.  I love it.  One of the key pieces of his talk was in reference to a trilogy of books by Daniel Borstin. The Discoverers, The Creators, and The Seekers ([Wikipedia link](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Seekers_(book))).  These books take you through history in the eyes of some of the most prolific Discoverers, Creators, and Seekers.  **This trio of classifications spoke to me, primarily because I feel that these are REALLY important characteristics of being successful in the field of analytics.**

Dean offered that, if the author were still alive, he would be compelled to write a fourth book "The Citizen Data Scientist".   I have a slightly different take on it.  I believe that data scientists / data analysts are all three: discoverers, creators and seekers.   One of these items I believe to be critically important and organically very rare… That is being a seeker.  

To be a seeker, in my opinion, one must possess these three traits: thirst for knowledge, solutioning and passion.  If someone has this "traits trifecta", no doubt they are a special person. I got the sense there were a few of these people at the conference this weekend.  However, this is something that is really rare.  They say 80% of people hate their jobs (I believe it, but im [not sure it's entirely true](https://skeptics.stackexchange.com/questions/31497/do-80-of-people-hate-their-job)).  I think that’s why there are so many serious hobbyists and entrepreneurs these days (because people don’t find joy in their jobs).  Don’t get me wrong, it's not about loving your specific day-to-day job, but more so about an attitude and ethic that you BRING to your job and life in general.  It's about learning one thing and then looking for the next thing to learn, with the constant feeling that you aren't learning enough.  It's about putting forth the effort to find solutions to problems you encounter, big and small.  And finally it's about a general enthusiasm, dedication and motivation that is in the 99th percentile.  

Alteryx and Tableau did something that is going to be hugely beneficial to the Seekers in the "business analyst" realm, they partnered with Udacity to develop a new "Business Analyst Nanodegree" certification program that integrates their software into key discipline areas that analysts should have some understanding about.  

Currently, there is limited detail available regarding the courses, as the program is in beta and it appears they are still working on the content, but I would bet they announce this as an available program this summer (just a guess).  There are 7 courses and a capstone project, estimated to take someone 4-6 months (spending 10 hours/week).  

Personally, I have been really impressed with the proliferation and improving quality of online education.  Companies like [Udacity](https://www.udacity.com/), [EDX](https://www.edx.org/) and [Coursera](https://www.coursera.org/) (among many others) are changing the world of education, however I think it comes with a huge caveat.  The benefit is only available to those that actually want it and are willing to put in the time (this is why it's not ready to replace college - as many of the people who go to college, actually don’t want to learn but see it as a requirement).  

I recently completed the [Data Analyst Nanodegree through Udacity](https://www.udacity.com/course/data-analyst-nanodegree--nd002), which I found to be immensely educational.  For someone who has a passion for data science, but no formal education, this broad exposure to a variety of disciplines was just right.  The courses struck the right balance of teaching high-level concepts while also providing detailed  programming exercises.  I would caution that earning a Nanodegree is not easy (the 7 classes and projects took me nearly 11 months and 315 hours).  However, The Seekers shouldn’t have an issue. While a bit late, I thought I would share a simple dashboard that gives some context to my Udacity journey. [sb name="journey"]